RFC: Simplify retry behaviour and unify it between plugins (#3902)
flyteorg/flyte: rfc/system/3902-simplify-retry-behaviour.md

* We would like Flyte to handle interruptible tasks the same, no matter which plugin is responsible.
* We would like users to be able to control how often a task can get preempted.
* We would like the retry mechanism and budgets to be easier to understand for platform users.

## 3 Proposed Implementation

We propose to introduce a new simplified retry behavior (which will have to be activated in the platform configuration and which will **not** be the default behavior in order to not make a breaking change).

This simplified retry behavior does not distinguish between user and system failures but considers a single maximum number of retries (defined by the user in the task decorator) regardless of the cause.

This will require a surprisingly small amount of changes to Flyte:

We propose to:

* Add a configuration flag in FlytePropeller for counting system and user retries the same.

> * Apply the new behavior in the [`isEligibleForRetry`](https://github.com/flyteorg/flytepropeller/blob/294f47a18c9b11892f2d1a3573019e85257c3b19/pkg/controller/nodes/executor.go#L440) function where, in contrast to the current logic, if the flag is set, we check if the number of attempts + the number of system failures is larger than the max number of retries set in the task decorator. For the last retries (details see section 8), non-spot instances are used.

Author: ```suggestion
* Apply the new behavior in the [`isEligibleForRetry`](https://github.com/flyteorg/flytepropeller/blob/294f47a18c9b11892f2d1a3573019e85257c3b19/pkg/controller/nodes/executor.go#L440) function where, in contrast to the current logic, if the flag is set, we check if the number of attempts + the number of system failures is larger than the max number of retries set in the task decorator. For the last retries, non-spot instances are used.
    * To not introduce an additional platform config flag, the existing flag `interruptibleFailureThreshold` is reused to decide when to switch to a regular instance. With the existing retry behaviour, this number is a positive integer that is the number of retries that are interruptible. For example, 4 (system failure) retries are allowed where 3 of them are interruptible. With the new retry behaviour, a negative number such as e.g. `-2` means that the last to retries are non-interruptible.
```

Author: @hamersaw do you agree?

The downside of this approach is that the general retry behavior remains as complex and difficult to understand as it is now.

### 6.2 Demistify failure of Pods belonging to plugins/CRDs

We discussed ways to give plugins access to the status of not only the custom resource they create (e.g. `PyTorchJob`) but also to the statuses of the pods created from the custom resource by the respective third-party operator (e.g. the kubeflow training operator). (This might require changes to the plugin interface, see details [here](https://github.com/flyteorg/flyte/discussions/3793).)

This approach would allow plugins to demistify failures of tasks by looking at the underlying pods which, in contrast to the custom resource, do contain hints of preemptions. This way, we could unify the retry behavior upon preemptions of the different plugins. However, wouldn't make the retry behavior easier to understand and users still wouldn't have control over the number of preemptions which is why we opted to not continue these discussions either.

## 7 Potential Impact and Dependencies

By having to activate the new retry behavior in the platform configuration, we will not break existing workflows.

> ## 8 Unresolved questions
> 
> An open question is how we deal with the `interruptibleFailureThreshold`. Currently, this value is a positive integer that is the number of retries that are interruptible. For example, 4 (system failure) retries are allowed where 3 of them are interruptible. Defining it this way does not make as much sense when we allow for task-level configuration of the retries.
> 
> We could define the number of retries that ARE NOT interruptible. For example a value of `nonInterruptibleRetries` that is set to 1 means that the last retry is not interruptible regardless of how many retries there are. We also have to discuss whether this value would be configured on the platform side (only for the new retry behavior) or whether we would add this value to to task-level metadata and expose it to users. Adding this flag while ensuring backwards compatibility will require further discussion.
> 
> Note: while unifying the retry budgets, the new retry behaviour still distinguishes between retriable and non-retriable exceptions and should do so consistently across plugins.

Author: ```suggestion
```

Author: @hamersaw
